.ad l
.TH ldns 3 "30 May 2006"
.SH NAME
ldns_init_random \- seed the random function

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <stdint.h>
.br
#include <stdbool.h>
.br
.PP
#include <ldns/ldns.h>
.PP
int ldns_init_random(FILE *fd, unsigned int size);
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
.HP
\fIldns_init_random\fR()
Seed the random function.
If the file descriptor is specified, the random generator is seeded with
data from that file. If not, /dev/urandom is used.

applications should call this if they need entropy data within ldns
If openSSL is available, it is automatically seeded from /dev/urandom
or /dev/random.

If you need more entropy, or have no openssl available, this function
\%MUST be called at the start of the program

If openssl *is* available, this function just adds more entropy

\.br
\fBfd\fR: a file providing entropy data for the seed
\.br
\fBsize\fR: the number of bytes to use as entropy data. If this is 0,
only the minimal amount is taken (usually 4 bytes)
\.br
Returns 0 if seeding succeeds, 1 if it fails
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
The ldns team at NLnet Labs. Which consists out of
Jelte Jansen and Miek Gieben.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs to ldns-team@nlnetlabs.nl or in 
our bugzilla at
http://www.nlnetlabs.nl/bugs/index.html

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2004 - 2006 NLnet Labs.
.PP
Licensed under the BSD License. There is NO warranty; not even for
MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIldns_sign_public\fR, \fIldns_key\fR.
And \fBperldoc Net::DNS\fR, \fBRFC1034\fR,
\fBRFC1035\fR, \fBRFC4033\fR, \fBRFC4034\fR  and \fBRFC4035\fR.
.SH REMARKS
This manpage was automatically generated from the ldns source code by
use of Doxygen and some perl.
